1.1 System Update
To ensure the operating system is up to date, run the following command:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
1.2 Installing the Apache Web Server
Install the Apache server and verify its functionality:
sudo apt install apache2 -y
sudo systemctl start apache2
sudo systemctl enable apache2
Obtain the server's IP address:
•	Run the command: ip addr show
•	Identify the IP address associated with the network interface (e.g., eth0 or wlan0).
•	Look for a line containing inet, in the format: inet 192.168.x.x/24.
Testing the Apache server: Open the server's IP address in a browser:
http://<server_IP>
Example: If the IP address is 192.168.1.100, access: http://192.168.1.100.
1.3 Installing and Configuring the SSH Service
Install and configure the OpenSSH server:
sudo apt install openssh-server -y
sudo systemctl start ssh
sudo systemctl enable ssh
Edit the SSH configuration file for better security:
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
Recommended changes:
•	Change the default port (22): Port 2222
•	Disable root login: PermitRootLogin no
•	Disable password authentication: PasswordAuthentication no
•	Enable public key authentication: PubkeyAuthentication yes
Apply the changes:
sudo systemctl restart ssh
1.4 Installing and Configuring the MariaDB Database Server
Although MySQL is available on Kali Linux, MariaDB is preinstalled and fully compatible with MySQL. We will use MariaDB in this project.
1.	Install MariaDB:
sudo apt update
sudo apt install mariadb-server mariadb-client -y
2.	Start and enable MariaDB:
sudo systemctl start mariadb
sudo systemctl enable mariadb
3.	Secure the MariaDB installation:
sudo mariadb-secure-installation
Recommended settings:
•	Change the root password.
•	Disable remote root access.
•	Remove test databases and anonymous users.
4.	Configure MariaDB to accept only local connections:
sudo nano /etc/mysql/mariadb.conf.d/50-server.cnf
Ensure the following line is active:
bind-address = 127.0.0.1
Save the file and restart MariaDB:
sudo systemctl restart mariadb
